Feb. 22, 2005

Elvia Thompson
Headquarters, Washington
(Phone: 202/358-1696) 

Gray Creech
Dryden Flight Research Center, Calif.
(Phone: 661/276-2662)RELEASE: 05-055

NASA HELPS LIFT SPACE SHUTTLE RETURN TO FLIGHT EFFORTS

NASA engineers continue to acquire data on how insulating foam debris 
behaves when shed from the Space Shuttle's external fuel tank during 
launch. NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center at Edwards Air Force 
Base, Calif., is conducting a series of flight tests of the debris, 
known as divots, as part of the Return to Flight team effort. 

The Lifting Insulating Foam Trajectory (LIFT) flight test series at 
Dryden is using the research center's F-15B jet Research Testbed 
aircraft to test divots at speeds up to approximately twice the speed 
of sound (Mach 2). 

Small divots pop off the external tank when the Thermal Protection 
System (TPS) foam fails. This occurs as a result of decreasing 
atmospheric pressure combined with increased heating during Shuttle 
ascent causing air trapped beneath the TPS to expand. 

"We're using the unique capabilities of the supersonic F-15B and the 
aerodynamic flight test fixture to provide a means to eject these 
divots from the fixture. We record them with a high speed digital 
video system. We're able to record the divots in flight at up to 
10,000 frames per second," LIFT project manager Stephen Corda said. 

Aeroscience engineer Ricardo Machin of NASA's Johnson Space Center, 
Houston, said, "The LIFT flight tests will help validate the models 
used for debris transport analysis." "In particular, it's going to 
help us understand whether the divots break up once they come off the 
external tank, and secondly whether they will trim and begin to fly, 
or if they'll tumble. The difference between trimming and flying 
makes a huge difference in the amount of kinetic energy debris can 
impart to the Shuttle," Machin said. 

The LIFT flight test required two new capabilities: an in-flight foam 
divot ejection system, and a high-speed video system to track and 
record the trajectories of the divots in flight. Both capabilities 
were developed by Dryden engineers in just over two months. 

Dryden's LIFT team designed, fabricated, and ground-tested four 
different divot ejection systems, completing 70 ground tests to 
determine and refine the best approach. They designed and procured 
the very high-speed digital video equipment, including development of 
a system to synchronize the cameras with the divot ejection system, 
and they developed videography analysis techniques to quantify divot 
trajectories. 

For information about NASA's Return to Flight efforts on the Web, 
visit: http://www.nasa.gov/returntoflight 

For information about NASA and other agency programs on the Web, 
visit: 

http://www.nasa.gov

	
-end-
